TESTING.md, before:

# Testing

> Return back to the [README.md](README.md) file.

## Code Validation

### HTML

I have used the recommended [HTML W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org) to validate all of my HTML files.

| Directory | File | URL | Screenshot | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | [index.html](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/index.html) | [HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https://marijavelickovska.github.io/brain-adventure/index.html) | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/html--index.png) | The warning occurred because the heading was initially empty, but it is dynamically filled with content using JavaScript. |
|  | [404.html](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/404.html) | [HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https://marijavelickovska.github.io/brain-adventure/404.html) | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/html--404.png) | |



### CSS

I have used the recommended [CSS Jigsaw Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator) to validate all of my CSS files.

| Directory | File | URL | Screenshot | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| assets | [style.css](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/assets/css/style.css) | [CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https://marijavelickovska.github.io/brain-adventure) | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/css--validator.png) |  |


### JavaScript

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

If using modern JavaScript (ES6) methods, then make sure to include the following line at the very top of every single JavaScript file in your project (this should remain in your files for submission as well):

`/* jshint esversion: 11 */`

If you are also including jQuery (`$`), then the updated format will be:

`/* jshint esversion: 11, jquery: true */`

This allows the JShint validator to recognize modern ES6 methods, such as: `let`, `const`, `template literals`, `arrow functions (=>)`, etc.

**IMPORTANT**: External resources

Sometimes we'll write JavaScript that imports variables from other files, such as "an array of questions" from `questions.js`, which are used within the main `script.js` file elsewhere. If that's the case, the JShint validation tool doesn't know how to recognize "unused variables" that would normally be imported locally when running your own project. These warnings are acceptable, so showcase on your screenshot(s).

The same thing applies when using external libraries such as Stripe, Leaflet, Bootstrap, Materialize, etc. To instantiate these components, we need to use their respective declarator. Again, the JShint validation tool would flag these as "undefined/unused variables". These warnings are acceptable, so showcase on your screenshot(s).

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

I have used the recommended [JShint Validator](https://jshint.com) to validate all of my JS files.

| Directory | File | URL | Screenshot | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| assets | [dataTopic.js](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/assets/js/dataTopic.js) | N/A | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/js-assets-dataTopic.png) | Notes (if applicable) |
| assets | [script.js](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/assets/js/script.js) | N/A | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/js-assets-script.png) | Notes (if applicable) |


## Responsiveness

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Use this space to discuss testing the live/deployed site on various device sizes.

The minimum requirement is to test the following 3 sizes:

- Mobile
- Tablet
- Desktop

**IMPORTANT**: You must provide screenshots of your results, to "prove" that you've actually tested them.

Using the [amiresponsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is) mockup images (*or similar*) does not meet the requirements. Consider using some of the built-in device sizes from the Developer Tools.

If you have tested the project on your actual mobile phone or tablet, consider also including screenshots of these as well. It showcases a higher level of manual tests, and can be seen as a positive inclusion!

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

I've tested my deployed project to check for responsiveness issues.

| Page | Mobile | Tablet | Desktop | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Home | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/mobile-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/tablet-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/desktop-home.png) | Works as expected |
| Game | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/mobile-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/tablet-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/desktop-game.png) | Works as expected |
| 404 | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/mobile-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/tablet-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/desktop-404.png) | Works as expected |

## Browser Compatibility

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Use this space to discuss testing the live/deployed site on various browsers. Consider testing at least 3 different browsers, if available on your system. You DO NOT need to use all of the browsers below, just pick any 3 (minimum).

Recommended browsers to consider:
- [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome)
- [Firefox (Developer Edition)](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox/developer)
- [Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/edge)
- [Safari](https://support.apple.com/downloads/safari)
- [Brave](https://brave.com/download)
- [Opera](https://www.opera.com/download)

**IMPORTANT**: You must provide screenshots of the browsers you've tested, to "prove" that you've actually tested them.

Please note, there are services out there that can test multiple browser compatibilities at the same time. Some of these are paid services, but some are free. If you use these, you must provide a link to the source used for attribution, and multiple screenshots of the results.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

I've tested my deployed project on multiple browsers to check for compatibility issues.

| Page | Chrome | Firefox | Safari | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Home | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/chrome-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/firefox-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/safari-home.png) | Works as expected |
| Game | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/chrome-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/firefox-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/safari-game.png) | Works as expected |
| 404 | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/chrome-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/firefox-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/safari-404.png) | Works as expected |

## Lighthouse Audit

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Use this space to discuss testing the live/deployed site's Lighthouse Audit reports. Avoid testing the local version (Gitpod/VSCode/etc.), as this can have knock-on effects for performance. If you don't have "Lighthouse" in your Developer Tools, it can be added as an [extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk).

Unless your project is a single-page application (SPA), you should test Lighthouse Audit results for all of your pages, for both *mobile* and *desktop*.

**IMPORTANT**: You must provide screenshots of the results, to "prove" that you've actually tested them.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

I've tested my deployed project using the Lighthouse Audit tool to check for any major issues. Some warnings are outside of my control, and mobile results tend to be lower than desktop.

| Page | Mobile | Desktop |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Home | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/mobile-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/desktop-home.png) |
| Game | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/mobile-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/desktop-game.png) |
| 404 | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/mobile-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/desktop-404.png) |

## Defensive Programming

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Defensive programming (defensive design) is extremely important! When building projects that accept user inputs or forms, you should always test the level of security for each form field. Examples of this could include (but not limited to):

All Projects:

- Users cannot submit an empty form (add the `required` attribute)
- Users must enter valid field types (ensure the correct input `type=""` is used)
- Users cannot brute-force a URL to navigate to a restricted pages

Python Projects:

- Users cannot perform CRUD functionality if not authenticated (if login functionality exists)
- User-A should not be able to manipulate data belonging to User-B, or vice versa
- Non-Authenticated users should not be able to access pages that require authentication
- Standard users should not be able to access pages intended for superusers/admins

You'll want to test all functionality on your application, whether it's a standard form, or CRUD functionality, for data manipulation on a database. Try to access various pages on your site as different user types (User-A, User-B, guest user, admin, superuser). You should include any manual tests performed, and the expected results/outcome.

Testing should be replicable (can someone else replicate the same outcome?). Ideally, tests cases should focus on each individual section of every page on the website. Each test case should be specific, objective, and step-wise replicable.

Instead of adding a general overview saying that everything works fine, consider documenting tests on each element of the page (eg. button clicks, input box validation, navigation links, etc.) by testing them in their "happy flow", their "bad/exception flow", mentioning the expected and observed results, and drawing a parallel between them where applicable.

Consider using the following format for manual test cases:

- Expected Outcome / Test Performed / Result Received / Fixes Implemented

- **Expected**: "Feature is expected to do X when the user does Y."
- **Testing**: "Tested the feature by doing Y."
- (either) **Result**: "The feature behaved as expected, and it did Y."
- (or) **Result**: "The feature did not respond to A, B, or C."
- **Fix**: "I did Z to the code because something was missing."

Use the table below as a basic start, and expand on it using the logic above.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

Defensive programming was manually tested with the below user acceptance testing:

| Page/Feature | Expectation | Test | Result | Screenshot |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Calculator UI | Feature is expected to allow the user to input two numbers and select an operator (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`). | Entered two numbers and selected each operator to perform calculations. | Calculations for all operators worked as expected. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/input-output.png) |
| | Feature is expected to show an error message if inputs are empty (`NaN`). | Tried submitting calculations with empty input fields. | Error message displayed as expected. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/empty-inputs.png) |
| | Feature is expected to display buttons that are clear, large, and easy to select on all devices. | Verified button sizes and usability across multiple devices (mobile, tablet, desktop). | Buttons were accessible and easy to use on all tested devices. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/responsive.png) |
| | Feature is expected to use high-contrast colors and accessible fonts. | Checked contrast ratios using accessibility tools (e.g., Lighthouse, Wave). | Colors and fonts met accessibility standards. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/accessibility.png) |
| | Feature is expected to have clear labels and instructions for user guidance. | Reviewed labels and instructions for clarity and ease of use. | Labels and instructions were clear and intuitive. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/labels-instructions.png) |
| Instant Calculation | Feature is expected to calculate and display results instantly after selecting an operator. | Selected operators after entering two numbers. | Results were displayed instantly. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/calc-speed.png) |
| Error Handling | Feature is expected to display correct results even if an equation was input incorrectly. | Entered various incorrect equations and verified the results. | Correct results were displayed for all tested cases. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/error-handling.png) |
| Score Tracker | Feature is expected to track the number of correct and incorrect equations. | Performed multiple calculations (correct and incorrect) and checked the score tracker. | Score tracker updated correctly for all tested scenarios. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/score-tracker.png) |
| 404 Error Page | Feature is expected to display a 404 error page for non-existent pages. | Navigated to an invalid URL (e.g., `/test`) to test error handling. | A custom 404 error page was displayed as expected. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/404.png) |

## User Story Testing

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Testing User Stories is actually quite simple, once you've already got the stories defined on your README.

Most of your project's **Features** should already align with the **User Stories**, so this should be as simple as creating a table with the User Story, matching with the re-used screenshot from the respective Feature.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

| Target | Expectation | Outcome | Screenshot |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| As a user | I would like to input two numbers and select an operator (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`) | so that I can calculate a result. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature01.png) |
| As a user | I would like the application to show me an error message if I enter empty input (`NaN`) | so that I understand what went wrong. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature02.png) |
| As a user | I would like the calculation to happen instantly after I select an operator | so that I get my result quickly without waiting. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature03.png) |
| As a user | I would like the application to have clear and large buttons for each operator | so that I can easily select the correct one on any device. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature04.png) |
| As a user | I would like the application to have high-contrast colors and accessible fonts | so that I can easily read and interact with it. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature05.png) |
| As a user | I would like clear labels and instructions | so that I understand how to use the app without confusion. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature06.png) |
| As a user | I would like the app to show me the correct result if my equation was incorrect | so that I understand how the answer was calculated. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature07.png) |
| As a user | I would like to see how many equations I get correct or incorrect | so I can push myself to improve my math skills. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature08.png) |
| As a user | I would like to see a 404 error page if I get lost | so that it's obvious that I've stumbled upon a page that doesn't exist. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature09.png) |

## Bugs

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Nobody likes bugs,... except the assessors! Projects seem more suspicious if a student doesn't properly track their bugs. If you're about to submit your project without any bugs listed below, you should ask yourself why you're doing this course in the first place, if you're able to build this entire application without running into any bugs. The best thing you can do for any project is to document your bugs! Not only does it show the true stages of development, but think of it as breadcrumbs for yourself in the future, should you encounter the same/similar bug again, it acts as a gentle reminder on what you did to fix the bug.

If/when you encounter bugs during the development stages of your project, you should document them here, ideally with a screenshot explaining what the issue was, and what you did to fix the bug.

Alternatively, an improved way to manage bugs is to use the built-in **[Issues](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues)** tracker on your GitHub repository. This can be found at the top of your repository, the tab called "Issues".

If using the Issues tracker for bug management, you can simplify the documentation process for testing. Issues allow you to directly paste screenshots into the issue page without having to first save the screenshot locally. You can add labels to your issues (e.g. `bug`), assign yourself as the owner, and add comments/updates as you progress with fixing the issue(s). Once you've solved the issue/bug, you should then "Close" it.

When showcasing your bug tracking for assessment, you can use the following examples below.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

### Fixed Bugs

[![GitHub issue custom search](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search?query=repo%3Amarijavelickovska%2Fbrain-adventure%20label%3Abug&label=bugs)](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug)

I've used [GitHub Issues](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues) to track and manage bugs and issues during the development stages of my project.

All previously closed/fixed bugs can be tracked [here](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug).

![screenshot](documentation/bugs/gh-issues-closed.png)

### Unfixed Bugs

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

You will need to mention any unfixed bugs and why they are not fixed upon submission of your project. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not a valid reason to leave bugs unfixed. Where possible, you must fix all outstanding bugs, unless outside of your control.

If you've identified any unfixed bugs, no matter how small, be sure to list them here! It's better to be honest and list them, because if it's not documented and an assessor finds the issue, they need to know whether or not you're aware of them as well, and why you've not corrected/fixed them.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure)](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues)

Any remaining open issues can be tracked [here](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues).

![screenshot](documentation/bugs/gh-issues-open.png)

### Known Issues

| Issue | Screenshot |
| --- | --- |
| On devices smaller than 375px, the page starts to have horizontal `overflow-x` scrolling. | ![screenshot](documentation/issues/overflow.png) |
| When validating HTML with a semantic `<section>` element, the validator warns about lacking a header `h2-h6`. This is acceptable. | ![screenshot](documentation/issues/section-header.png) |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> There are no remaining bugs that I am aware of, though, even after thorough testing, I cannot rule out the possibility.

Commit message:

Update testing.md with JS validation results

TESTING.md, after:

# Testing

> Return back to the [README.md](README.md) file.

## Code Validation

### HTML

I have used the recommended [HTML W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org) to validate all of my HTML files.

| Directory | File | URL | Screenshot | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | [index.html](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/index.html) | [HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https://marijavelickovska.github.io/brain-adventure/index.html) | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/html-index.png) | The warning occurred because the heading was initially empty, but it is dynamically filled with content using JavaScript. |
|  | [404.html](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/404.html) | [HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/nu/?doc=https://marijavelickovska.github.io/brain-adventure/404.html) | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/html-404.png) | |



### CSS

I have used the recommended [CSS Jigsaw Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator) to validate all of my CSS files.

| Directory | File | URL | Screenshot | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| assets | [style.css](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/assets/css/style.css) | [CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https://marijavelickovska.github.io/brain-adventure) | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/css.png) |  |


### JavaScript

I have used the recommended [JShint Validator](https://jshint.com) to validate all of my JS files.

| Directory | File | URL | Screenshot | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| assets | [script.js](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/assets/js/script.js) | N/A | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/js-script.png) | The warnings are due to unrecognized variables. This happens because `script.js` imports variables from another file, `dataTopic.js`, which might not be properly linked or loaded during testing. These warnings do not affect the actual functionality when all files are correctly imported in the final environment. |
| assets | [dataTopic.js](https://github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/blob/main/assets/js/dataTopic.js) | N/A | ![screenshot](documentation/validation/js-dataTopic.png) | The warnings are for unused variables. These variables are actually used in `script.js` file. |



## Responsiveness

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Use this space to discuss testing the live/deployed site on various device sizes.

The minimum requirement is to test the following 3 sizes:

- Mobile
- Tablet
- Desktop

**IMPORTANT**: You must provide screenshots of your results, to "prove" that you've actually tested them.

Using the [amiresponsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is) mockup images (*or similar*) does not meet the requirements. Consider using some of the built-in device sizes from the Developer Tools.

If you have tested the project on your actual mobile phone or tablet, consider also including screenshots of these as well. It showcases a higher level of manual tests, and can be seen as a positive inclusion!

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

I've tested my deployed project to check for responsiveness issues.

| Page | Mobile | Tablet | Desktop | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Home | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/mobile-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/tablet-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/desktop-home.png) | Works as expected |
| Game | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/mobile-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/tablet-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/desktop-game.png) | Works as expected |
| 404 | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/mobile-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/tablet-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/responsiveness/desktop-404.png) | Works as expected |

## Browser Compatibility

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Use this space to discuss testing the live/deployed site on various browsers. Consider testing at least 3 different browsers, if available on your system. You DO NOT need to use all of the browsers below, just pick any 3 (minimum).

Recommended browsers to consider:
- [Chrome](https://www.google.com/chrome)
- [Firefox (Developer Edition)](https://www.mozilla.org/firefox/developer)
- [Edge](https://www.microsoft.com/edge)
- [Safari](https://support.apple.com/downloads/safari)
- [Brave](https://brave.com/download)
- [Opera](https://www.opera.com/download)

**IMPORTANT**: You must provide screenshots of the browsers you've tested, to "prove" that you've actually tested them.

Please note, there are services out there that can test multiple browser compatibilities at the same time. Some of these are paid services, but some are free. If you use these, you must provide a link to the source used for attribution, and multiple screenshots of the results.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

I've tested my deployed project on multiple browsers to check for compatibility issues.

| Page | Chrome | Firefox | Safari | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Home | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/chrome-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/firefox-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/safari-home.png) | Works as expected |
| Game | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/chrome-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/firefox-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/safari-game.png) | Works as expected |
| 404 | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/chrome-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/firefox-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/browsers/safari-404.png) | Works as expected |

## Lighthouse Audit

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Use this space to discuss testing the live/deployed site's Lighthouse Audit reports. Avoid testing the local version (Gitpod/VSCode/etc.), as this can have knock-on effects for performance. If you don't have "Lighthouse" in your Developer Tools, it can be added as an [extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/lighthouse/blipmdconlkpinefehnmjammfjpmpbjk).

Unless your project is a single-page application (SPA), you should test Lighthouse Audit results for all of your pages, for both *mobile* and *desktop*.

**IMPORTANT**: You must provide screenshots of the results, to "prove" that you've actually tested them.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

I've tested my deployed project using the Lighthouse Audit tool to check for any major issues. Some warnings are outside of my control, and mobile results tend to be lower than desktop.

| Page | Mobile | Desktop |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Home | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/mobile-home.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/desktop-home.png) |
| Game | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/mobile-game.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/desktop-game.png) |
| 404 | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/mobile-404.png) | ![screenshot](documentation/lighthouse/desktop-404.png) |

## Defensive Programming

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Defensive programming (defensive design) is extremely important! When building projects that accept user inputs or forms, you should always test the level of security for each form field. Examples of this could include (but not limited to):

All Projects:

- Users cannot submit an empty form (add the `required` attribute)
- Users must enter valid field types (ensure the correct input `type=""` is used)
- Users cannot brute-force a URL to navigate to a restricted pages

Python Projects:

- Users cannot perform CRUD functionality if not authenticated (if login functionality exists)
- User-A should not be able to manipulate data belonging to User-B, or vice versa
- Non-Authenticated users should not be able to access pages that require authentication
- Standard users should not be able to access pages intended for superusers/admins

You'll want to test all functionality on your application, whether it's a standard form, or CRUD functionality, for data manipulation on a database. Try to access various pages on your site as different user types (User-A, User-B, guest user, admin, superuser). You should include any manual tests performed, and the expected results/outcome.

Testing should be replicable (can someone else replicate the same outcome?). Ideally, tests cases should focus on each individual section of every page on the website. Each test case should be specific, objective, and step-wise replicable.

Instead of adding a general overview saying that everything works fine, consider documenting tests on each element of the page (eg. button clicks, input box validation, navigation links, etc.) by testing them in their "happy flow", their "bad/exception flow", mentioning the expected and observed results, and drawing a parallel between them where applicable.

Consider using the following format for manual test cases:

- Expected Outcome / Test Performed / Result Received / Fixes Implemented

- **Expected**: "Feature is expected to do X when the user does Y."
- **Testing**: "Tested the feature by doing Y."
- (either) **Result**: "The feature behaved as expected, and it did Y."
- (or) **Result**: "The feature did not respond to A, B, or C."
- **Fix**: "I did Z to the code because something was missing."

Use the table below as a basic start, and expand on it using the logic above.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

Defensive programming was manually tested with the below user acceptance testing:

| Page/Feature | Expectation | Test | Result | Screenshot |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Calculator UI | Feature is expected to allow the user to input two numbers and select an operator (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`). | Entered two numbers and selected each operator to perform calculations. | Calculations for all operators worked as expected. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/input-output.png) |
| | Feature is expected to show an error message if inputs are empty (`NaN`). | Tried submitting calculations with empty input fields. | Error message displayed as expected. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/empty-inputs.png) |
| | Feature is expected to display buttons that are clear, large, and easy to select on all devices. | Verified button sizes and usability across multiple devices (mobile, tablet, desktop). | Buttons were accessible and easy to use on all tested devices. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/responsive.png) |
| | Feature is expected to use high-contrast colors and accessible fonts. | Checked contrast ratios using accessibility tools (e.g., Lighthouse, Wave). | Colors and fonts met accessibility standards. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/accessibility.png) |
| | Feature is expected to have clear labels and instructions for user guidance. | Reviewed labels and instructions for clarity and ease of use. | Labels and instructions were clear and intuitive. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/labels-instructions.png) |
| Instant Calculation | Feature is expected to calculate and display results instantly after selecting an operator. | Selected operators after entering two numbers. | Results were displayed instantly. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/calc-speed.png) |
| Error Handling | Feature is expected to display correct results even if an equation was input incorrectly. | Entered various incorrect equations and verified the results. | Correct results were displayed for all tested cases. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/error-handling.png) |
| Score Tracker | Feature is expected to track the number of correct and incorrect equations. | Performed multiple calculations (correct and incorrect) and checked the score tracker. | Score tracker updated correctly for all tested scenarios. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/score-tracker.png) |
| 404 Error Page | Feature is expected to display a 404 error page for non-existent pages. | Navigated to an invalid URL (e.g., `/test`) to test error handling. | A custom 404 error page was displayed as expected. | ![screenshot](documentation/defensive/404.png) |

## User Story Testing

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Testing User Stories is actually quite simple, once you've already got the stories defined on your README.

Most of your project's **Features** should already align with the **User Stories**, so this should be as simple as creating a table with the User Story, matching with the re-used screenshot from the respective Feature.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

| Target | Expectation | Outcome | Screenshot |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| As a user | I would like to input two numbers and select an operator (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`) | so that I can calculate a result. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature01.png) |
| As a user | I would like the application to show me an error message if I enter empty input (`NaN`) | so that I understand what went wrong. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature02.png) |
| As a user | I would like the calculation to happen instantly after I select an operator | so that I get my result quickly without waiting. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature03.png) |
| As a user | I would like the application to have clear and large buttons for each operator | so that I can easily select the correct one on any device. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature04.png) |
| As a user | I would like the application to have high-contrast colors and accessible fonts | so that I can easily read and interact with it. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature05.png) |
| As a user | I would like clear labels and instructions | so that I understand how to use the app without confusion. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature06.png) |
| As a user | I would like the app to show me the correct result if my equation was incorrect | so that I understand how the answer was calculated. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature07.png) |
| As a user | I would like to see how many equations I get correct or incorrect | so I can push myself to improve my math skills. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature08.png) |
| As a user | I would like to see a 404 error page if I get lost | so that it's obvious that I've stumbled upon a page that doesn't exist. | ![screenshot](documentation/features/feature09.png) |

## Bugs

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

Nobody likes bugs,... except the assessors! Projects seem more suspicious if a student doesn't properly track their bugs. If you're about to submit your project without any bugs listed below, you should ask yourself why you're doing this course in the first place, if you're able to build this entire application without running into any bugs. The best thing you can do for any project is to document your bugs! Not only does it show the true stages of development, but think of it as breadcrumbs for yourself in the future, should you encounter the same/similar bug again, it acts as a gentle reminder on what you did to fix the bug.

If/when you encounter bugs during the development stages of your project, you should document them here, ideally with a screenshot explaining what the issue was, and what you did to fix the bug.

Alternatively, an improved way to manage bugs is to use the built-in **[Issues](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues)** tracker on your GitHub repository. This can be found at the top of your repository, the tab called "Issues".

If using the Issues tracker for bug management, you can simplify the documentation process for testing. Issues allow you to directly paste screenshots into the issue page without having to first save the screenshot locally. You can add labels to your issues (e.g. `bug`), assign yourself as the owner, and add comments/updates as you progress with fixing the issue(s). Once you've solved the issue/bug, you should then "Close" it.

When showcasing your bug tracking for assessment, you can use the following examples below.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

### Fixed Bugs

[![GitHub issue custom search](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search?query=repo%3Amarijavelickovska%2Fbrain-adventure%20label%3Abug&label=bugs)](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug)

I've used [GitHub Issues](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues) to track and manage bugs and issues during the development stages of my project.

All previously closed/fixed bugs can be tracked [here](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Abug).

![screenshot](documentation/bugs/gh-issues-closed.png)

### Unfixed Bugs

⚠️ INSTRUCTIONS ⚠️

You will need to mention any unfixed bugs and why they are not fixed upon submission of your project. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not a valid reason to leave bugs unfixed. Where possible, you must fix all outstanding bugs, unless outside of your control.

If you've identified any unfixed bugs, no matter how small, be sure to list them here! It's better to be honest and list them, because if it's not documented and an assessor finds the issue, they need to know whether or not you're aware of them as well, and why you've not corrected/fixed them.

⚠️ --- END --- ⚠️

[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure)](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues)

Any remaining open issues can be tracked [here](https://www.github.com/marijavelickovska/brain-adventure/issues).

![screenshot](documentation/bugs/gh-issues-open.png)

### Known Issues

| Issue | Screenshot |
| --- | --- |
| On devices smaller than 375px, the page starts to have horizontal `overflow-x` scrolling. | ![screenshot](documentation/issues/overflow.png) |
| When validating HTML with a semantic `<section>` element, the validator warns about lacking a header `h2-h6`. This is acceptable. | ![screenshot](documentation/issues/section-header.png) |

> [!IMPORTANT]
> There are no remaining bugs that I am aware of, though, even after thorough testing, I cannot rule out the possibility.
